We normally talk about UPI scams,
digital arrest, SIM swap, and a lot
more. But there's one scam which has
been going on for years. But
surprisingly, no one is talking about
it. The scam that I'm talking about is
the repair smartphone scam. If you're
thinking that this is about companies
charging you more when you repair your
phone, it's not. It's a lot more bigger,
lot more worse, and lot more scary than
that. Well, the scam is about service
centers and repair shops accessing your
phone's data without your permission and
then leaking everything online. Yes,
whenever you give your phone for repair,
be it for broken screen or charging port
issue or maybe a broken back, you're not
not just giving your phone, you are
giving your entire life because the data
that you have in your phone can be
easily accessed by these service center
guys and they can do whatever they wish
to do with it. They can go through your
personal photos, your videos, your apps,
browser history, passwords, every little
thing. And they can even copy all your
data and worse, blackmail you or even
leak everything online. And it's not
just unofficial repair shops that I'm
talking about. This can happen with
official service centers too. In fact,
authorized service centers of very
reputed companies like Google and Apple
has done this to their users. So you can
never be sure. A very recent case
happened in Kolkata where a girl gave
her phone for repair and all her private
photos and videos got leaked online. And
after that she got harassed by thousands
of messages. Her parents stopped talking
to her. She had to change her social
media account and even her phone number.
She even filed a cyber complaint against
Nasim. But the thing is damage is
already done. And it's not just one
case. There are lots and lots of similar
cases like this and only a few gets
reported. A lot of people who face this
issue don't talk about it or don't even
report to the police because first
there's a huge lack of awareness.
Second, there's a risk of public
shaming. So a lot of people don't speak
about it. And third, a lot of victims
are blamed as well. So instead of
speaking about it, they just face this
silently. So yeah, the problem is more
serious and more prominent than it looks
like. So how can we save ourselves?
Well, there are some things that we can
do. First of all, whenever you give your
phone for repair, always make sure that
you turn on the repair mode or the
maintenance mode on your phone. For
those who don't know, think of it like a
guest mode for service centers. So
whenever you turn repair mode, your
phone locks away all your personal data
and the technician can still check
hardware, run diagnostic, and repair it
without accessing any of your personal
data. But you know what? It's not as
rosy as it sounds. There are multiple
occasions where the service center guys
forced the people to take their phone
out of the repair mode even for small
repairs. And in some cases, people who
sent their phone in repair mode got back
a completely wiped out factory reset
phone, which shouldn't have been the
case. So, it's a hit or miss, but I will
still leave a step-by-step guide on how
to turn on repair mode on all the
phones. So, you can check that out from
the description. And by the way, there
are still some brands like Motorola,
nothing, Vivo, IQ. They don't have any
such setting and it's high time they
should. Now, repair mode is one way of
protecting your data. But as I already
told you, it's not foolproof and it's
also not available for all the brands.
So, what should you do? Well, there's
one more way. It's actually pretty old
school, but it's also very reliable. You
just have to manually back up all your
data on your PC or on cloud, factory
reset your phone, and then give it for
repair. If you do this, it'll take some
extra time for you to set up the phone
when it comes back after repair. But at
least you are assured that your data
isn't going anywhere. So, those were two
ways to protect your data. But what if
your phone doesn't even turn on and the
screen is completely shattered? What are
your options there? Now, that's where it
gets a bit more tricky. See, if you
think your phone has some sensitive data
or some super critical information or
maybe some photos that you don't want to
risk, it's better to avoid giving it to
the service center. But if you're 100%
sure that it's all harmless, you can
just go ahead and give it for repairs.
Honestly, there's no way to protect your
data in this case. It's totally up to
you and what you decide. But there's
still one thing that you can do. Once
the phone come back, you can just go
through the digital wellbeing data to
see what happened in the duration of the
service. Or you can check Google My
Activity to see minute-wise usage of
your device. This might not protect you,
but at least you'll have an idea what
exactly happened on your device.
Actually, I just hope that the brands
who are watching this video come up with
a viable solution to this problem
because it's just ruining a lot of
lives. But for now, there's no permanent
solution to smartphone repair scam and
your privacy and your data is in your
hands only. So, always have your data
backed up. So, even if your phone stops
working, you can just afford to lose it
rather than risking it all. It's just
not worth it. See, the ultimate aim of
this video is to tell you how serious
and how prominent is this issue. So
share this with everyone, your friends,
your family, your WhatsApp group, and
the people you care about so that they
don't get trapped by this bad, bad scam.
I'll see you on the next one.